Some truths are so enormous that words
cannot convey them. The smallest and the
greatest things can only be conveyed in
silence since they are too grand to be
able to talk about them. That's how I
feel about what I know now. I've seen
something so enormous that it's like the
sky is a different color now, but then I
run into normies who still see the world
in the old way. They can't understand
that their own worldview just doesn't
work. It's a false reflection they've
made that doesn't make sense once you
start pulling at the different threads
that tie it together. When I was a
teenager, I still belonged to the blue
pill world. I had never thought much
about the blank slate. There was nothing
written on the differences between men
and women or different races. Yet,
people didn't talk about so many things
and we lived in ignorance through
emission. It's really remarkable how
arrogant we were and how we thought we
had total knowledge on how the world
worked. We were controlled since we
focused on the little things that don't
matter which allowed us to ignore the
big picture things that actually do. The
big picture involved everything that
really did matter between our sense of
identity, religion, economics, mating or
the direction of our society as a whole.
It was stolen from us as we were told to
focus on making money in hedenism
instead. In the last 7 years since I
graduated high school and I'm 24 now, I
went through a very important journey. I
gradually deconstructed how the entire
world we all used to live in for our
whole lives were false. None of this is
real and it's all a lie. This story
feels very important to me, but there's
not an archetypal frame to explain it in
our society. So, I don't really know how
to articulate it to most people I talk
to, which is why I don't. In short, none
of this is real, and it's all a lie.
This is a theme I've spoken about in
several previous videos, with some prime
examples being the greatest lie ever
told, or my video on the rise and fall
of the blue pill about how the 20th
century built a Plato's cave of
comfortable illusions. Lots of people
can understand that in certain topics
like politics or with trans that we've
been deceived. But what I found is this
goes so much deeper. Once you flip the
log over, you'll find it's been
completely eaten out by worms and
insects already. This is a video to
dissect our rotting basement of a
worldview and show why the entire old
world we've spent our lives in was all a
lie.
[Music]
One of the biggest lies in our reality
is that we're past the age of war. War
still captures the minds and imagination
of many who play war games. And possibly
the best war game out there is the epic
online game War Thunder. War Thunder is
the most comprehensive vehicle war game
ever made with more than 2500 different
planes, tanks, helicopters, and ships
that you can use in the most epic
combined arms PVP battles. Every vehicle
is completely modeled down to its
component parts with designs from the
1920s to the present. What I find
especially cool about this game is that
there are no hit points. The vehicles
take damage to their crew and parts,
creating a really immersive experience.
War Thunder is one of those timeless
games that's available everywhere, be
that PC, PlayStation, Xbox, and even on
your phone with all the new mobile
version, so you can take the game with
you wherever you go. Join a community of
over 95 million players. Those of you
that are new or returning after 6 months
on PC or console also get a massive free
bonus pack. So try War Thunder today and
use the links in the description to get
a free bonus pack featuring vehicles and
boosters.
Part one, a failing of human nature.
Before we get started, I want to clarify
what I mean by the word worldview. In
German philosophy, the word worldview
carries all of the connotations, which
makes sense in their culture, which we
don't have in an English-speaking
context. For example, the German concept
of worldview is an allencompassing
vision of how reality works, which will
vary by civilization. This is where the
term Islamic or Western world comes
from. This matters since it changes what
the term world even means. A lot of
people perceive the word world and I
find that funny because word is an old
Norse word for destiny. So it's sort of
the destiny of the world which is how
worldviews work is it shifts from the
end of the world meaning the end of all
human life to the end of a sort of
civilizational vision which you could
see with the fall of the Greco Roman
classical ecumen or the known world.
Alternately, I will reference the modern
versus early modern or medieval worlds.
For each of these, they inhabit often
the exact same physical areas as
different worldviews, but had such
wildly fluctuating ideas on how the
world worked that in some ways they're
almost different fantasy novels. We
really underestimate how the way most
people in history perceived the world is
significantly closer to the Warhammer
fantasy universe than our vision of the
world today. We project nihilism onto
other eras of history unconsciously
since it's so prevalent and
all-consuming for our society. I think
the history of psychology and
consciousness has the potential to be
something of profound importance if done
correctly. The way humans perceive the
world has changed radically over history
and often in very brief time periods. I
mean, think of how much our vision of
the world has changed within the last
century or the last lifetime and then
magnify that over thousands or millions
of years. There's a really brilliant
book called The Passion of the Western
Mind by Tarnis which breaks down the
course of Western intellectual history
into a three-part segment and then tries
to explain the core contention and way
each worldview worked. He splits it into
the Greek, medieval, Christian, and
modern worldviews. For reasons I explain
in this text wall, we often radically
misinterpret how ancient or medieval
thinkers understood the world through
not comprehending the context their
mental frame came from or what their
language actually meant. The reason I'm
articulating this here is that we know
from history that we can invalidate and
move on from old worldviews. This is
just part of the process of human
history where as mankind develops as a
species, our minds have to evolve in
unison with our material level of
development. This is a philosophic point
that I really cannot justify the
modernist world not understanding. It's
just utterly insane we haven't hit this
philosophic threshold yet where we can't
realize that if previous eras of history
could be wrong, so will our era of
history be. And we need to judge
ourselves by the standard of what has
already worked in history. Our era of
history combines both profound
self-loathing and delusional arrogance
at the same time, which is the worst
place to be. Instead, you should aim
towards confidence and humility. The
self-loathing is obvious in which the
west has developed into self-
flagagillation as its predominant
religion and is now attempting to commit
suicide. Both sides of the political
spectrum between left-wing
environmentalists to right-wing
traditionalists openly hate modernity.
At the very same time, the ego stems
from thinking that we are such a
superior age of history that there is no
value in studying history. Academia has
literally made it taboo and refuses to
publish books on using history to study
the world today. All the major authors
on this topic are either based outside
the western world or from there or are
self-published non-academic authors. No
other era of history has ever been this
arrogant in that they always valued the
opinions of their ancestors. This is a
very very important philosophic point
which changes how you frame the entire
world. In our current society, the way
we actually operate is that the ruling
authorities will fund scientific
research to benefit their own
self-interest. In most cases, these
scientific experiments are never
replicated. And if you know how, there
are so many ways to skew data to
whatever point you want. Then the media
and academia, who are part of the same
system of control, enforce this on the
public. Science is not our society's
dominant code, but rather
pseudoscientific ideology is. This is
completely obvious once you compare all
of the intellectual or academic
information, as I'm excited to do so in
this video. The reason the idea that
every era of history can be wrong is so
important since it's a bull work against
our own foolishness and arrogance. In
practical life, none of us are this
foolish. We use common sense and reality
filters in order to live and you have to
do the same thing on a macro
geopolitical level. What nations say and
their documents aren't who they are.
Their actions dictate that. Going
forward, I'm going to refer to our
current worldview or paradigm as the map
or modern materialist academic paradigm.
I'm using this to describe the general
vision of the world which our current
ruling class between academia, the
government, and the media all share.
When I say that we can't trust the
information we know now, this is an
example of what I mean. Imagine trying
to explain electricity or computers to
an ancient Babylonian. Keep in mind the
idea of using rationality to explain the
world stems from the ancient Greeks as
did the hypothesis or even the concept
of the laws of nature. For the
Babylonians, their entire worldview was
based around gods with intentions
willing reality into existence. The idea
that you would study natural laws to
gain mastery of them and do things like
the industrial revolution simply would
not be comprehensible to the
Babylonians. This is why I refuse to
have clear opinions on UFOs or a lot of
physics. I'm sure there is some
underlying principle here that explains
these things, but I'm highly doubtful
that our society either has the mental
models or the tools to understand how
the world works completely. Imagine
trying to explain the theory of
evolution to someone in the 17th
century, where you'd also have to
articulate lots of concepts like that
the world was not made by God 6,000
years ago, that mankind is a descendant
from the apes, or the principles of
genetics and heredity. Imagine trying to
explain World War II to someone in the
15th century. You'd have to explain
Germany unified. You had the industrial
revolution. You'd have to explain what
science was. It's just the world changes
a lot. And remember that the universe
doesn't owe you anything and is however
complex and absurd as it wants to be.
I'm always shocked that this is such a
difficult concept for thinkers today in
which practically no modernist thinkers
broach this idea. This concept has just
been intuitive to me ever since I was a
child that this era of history is not
the ultimate arbiter and we will make
mistakes in the same way that every
other era will. This is why I developed
the concept of saw or how frequently
modern science from the 21st century
matches up with ancient wisdom. It's
often opposed to the pseudocience of the
20th century. Alternately, a concept I
invented is the universal scholar, which
is if you put Plato, Aristotle,
Confucious, Isaac Newton, Carl Jung, and
Muhammad, just to name a handful of
widely respected thinkers around the
world in history, into a single room
that if they can agree on something, you
can assort that it's probably true.
Those thinkers are more intelligent than
me and I am not smart enough to
understand all of their thought
processes but as a sort of probabilistic
bet if they agree on something in
different contexts not aware of the
others it's probably true. If 99% of
human history believes something it's
probably true. But the crazy thing is
that modernity in most cases is opposed
to what almost all humans in history
believed. I find the idea that the
universe has to be rational and logical,
stemming from some warped view of
medieval scholasticism descending from
Plato has done an enormous amount of
damage to modern people trying to
understand the world. People want the
world to be neat and to fit into charts.
When things don't fit into charts,
whether the complexities of human
nature, the genome, the subconscious,
culture, or quantum physics, people get
angry. But that was never the point.
Life is not reasonable. In fact, it is
frequently profoundly insane and
disturbing. Life is only beautiful and
worth living due to its chaos. As above,
so below. For a brief frame of
reference, and this should probably be a
topic of its own video in its own right,
but practically all societies in history
before the modern world believed that
heredity was at least a large part of
sex, race, class, and other things. They
believed in the divine and a great chain
of being which stretched from lower
forms to higher forms where it was our
duty to move upwards. They believed that
things like tradition or the nation or
culture were necessary bull works
against a fallible human nature that war
and other unpleasant things like plague
were just part of the simulation and we
had to accept them and do our best to
compete in these systems. They saw
history as fairly cyclical where you see
patterns continue again and again. And
they saw the entire universe as a place
with meaning built into it where it was
our duty to live out that meaning as
much as possible. where the material
exists to serve the ideal, where there
are these broader archetypal principles
which God created and humans have to
live out these archetypes like goodness
or evil or higher or lower forms or
justice or tyranny or these things.
Again, the societies that would have
agreed with this include all of preodern
European history, Greco Roman classical
civilization, the major Asian
civilizations, the major tribal peoples
in prehistory, where modernist people do
not understand how separated they are
from the vast majority of people in
human history. And if we're totally
unwilling to investigate, if over 95% of
people in history were wrong in their
worldview, that is profoundly dangerous.
A really good example for how you end up
with the silliness of the current map
paradigm is that people today like to
build a series of logical arguments
which can then be added together towards
the end result they want. Think of Karl
Marx who built a theory assuming Hegel's
theory of the historic dialectic was
correct. Then assuming that only
economic or material variables propelled
human nature or history. Then that there
was a natural arc of history which bent
towards the lower classes. After this
that all of human nature was innately
equal where the only variable in
economic progress was the upper classes
oppressing the lower classes. finally
that the culmination of this process was
the creation of an anarctic totalizing
state through revolution that would just
work because it was destined by history
to work. I call this method adding as if
clauses like coding. People seem to
think that the more as if clauses, the
smarter they are. They think they're
building Legos on top of each other to
make a beautiful structure when in
reality they're just building Jenga
where the more clauses they add, the
less likely the final end point of the
argument here is correct. The issue with
arguments like this is that if one link
in this chain of logic is wrong, it
means Marxism as an ideology will not
work in the real world. I hope you
notice that with the way I write my
videos, I try to minimize as if clauses
as much as possible and I try to
understand the real context of a
situation for what it is. As if clauses
are a pretty serious issue since this
very chain of logic was used to murder
downwards of a 100 million people. The
way our worldview became a lie was
through this trick. Another element here
is that for most of these ideas when
they were tested they were proven to be
demonstratively incorrect or they never
tested these ideas in the first place or
they built structures to actively avoid
testing them. Marxism or Freudianism are
great examples where built into their
implicit structure is that anyone who
tries to falsify them are either class
enemies or repressed. This means they're
stuck in the closed loop where they use
definitions which say they're correct by
definition since they defined their
terms that way. Modernity's great issue
is confusing the finger pointing at the
moon with the moon itself. This makes
our culture profoundly gullible and
silly. That's since we will build an
entire worldview off foundations that
are just incorrect and then invalidate
the entire project. This is one of the
things I see the map paradigm does,
which just makes me face bomb. The map
paradigm will demand an enormous amount
of effort and willpower in order to
attain goals that don't even make sense.
For example, the entire communist
experiment, which again killed like 80
million people, was based off economic
principles, which anyone with any degree
of knowledge or wisdom knew were totally
incorrect at the time of Marx. Wokeness
or Nazism as examples are just based off
objectively incorrect principles or
ideas and thus any attempt to reach them
will always backfire. You can't have an
incorrect idea and then be shocked that
it doesn't work. Nze said that overwork
was a symptom of modernity or using
constant busyness as a way to get out of
the two or three major things that
really matter to the course of your
life. In the ancient or medieval worlds,
your life was naturally organized around
the things which would give you the most
meaning. That meant that through the
process of living, you would naturally
cultivate meaning so you'd be happy on
your deathbed. In the map paradigm, the
world is organized around the most
meaningless things first, like hedonism
or comfort, while totally ignoring the
concept of meaning. This is why we have
a suicidally nihilistic society. Before
we get started going through the
evidence later in this video, if you're
wondering how this happened, the short
answer is that map is like a student who
just keeps making an equation larger and
larger, pouring huge amounts of effort
into it. But the thing is the math is
just wrong, so it doesn't matter.
Modernity never checks to see if its
assumptions are even correct. There is
no quality control. This is ironic since
science and especially so after peer
review which emerged after World War II
should have done the opposite. But this
has clearly not been the case in applied
reality. We made a false imitation of
the world as our worldview and then
didn't check the relationship between
our simulation and the original. One of
the points James Bernham made that's so
brilliant in his prophetic book called
The Suicide of the West that was written
in 1961 was that when you interact with
the progressive, you're dealing with
their mental projection of the world,
not the reality. When the left thinks of
black people, they have their own mental
image of blacks as progressive helpless
babies, which bears very little
resemblance to actual living black
people. If their economic policies fail,
it's always the right fault since their
worldview was designed to have no
feedback loop to reality to disprove it.
That since the left is built off the
abdicating of responsibility. The reason
we did this was severalfold. The first
is that the staggering wealth and
progress of the last few centuries in
the western world made delusion very
easy. The title for this segment is a
play on words that this false worldview
is both an outcome of an understandable
failing of human nature. That any
population which experienced as much
success as the west did would have an
ego issue. The good thing is that the
west largely did not use this power in a
totalitarian manner to lord it over the
world's inhabitants and made the
decision to pull back and try to be more
moral. At the same time, the core lie of
this false worldview was the
misunderstanding of human nature, which
I discuss in the greatest lie ever told.
The counterintuitive nature of a lot of
real science meant that people could use
sciency sounding terms to pretend that
the sky was red somehow. I mean, if you
talk about physics, most of it does not
make sense to normal people or math. And
so, it's easy to convince them that the
world itself does not make sense.
Secondly, the rise of democracies and
mass societies alongside the huge scale
of the industrial revolution meant that
there was a large incentive to believe
things that sounded pleasant and plated
as many people as possible. Once you get
into large enough groups, the incentive
is no longer truth seeeking, but rather
it becomes plating its own hive mind.
Unlike earlier eras of history which
were aristocratic in our society, the
ruling regime needs to use science to
maintain their right to rule as
technocrats. Thus, they have to control
and indoctrinate the population to stay
in power. Part two, let's make a
checklist. When I say that this entire
worldview is fake, people normally don't
believe me. However, until you really
add up each bit, you don't realize how
bad it is. It's not like we've just had
scientific malpractice and instead
there's been a very pre-planned
worldview which was forced down our
throats against our consent. Let's start
with the area where I know the most or
in the humanities. As I've alluded to
before, the core issue we have today is
our concept of human nature which is
totally incorrect. Thomas Soul covered
this very well in his book, A Conflict
of Visions, in which he talks about how
the left and right are divided by a core
contention about human nature. That
being whether human nature is
perfectable or not. In retrospect, it's
really remarkable how naive the Western
intellectuals have been to a frankly
absolutely dangerous degree. The Western
intellectuals since the time of the
Enlightenment have surrendered all of
the core pillars of their civilization's
worldview, even when they were
objectively correct, out of fear of
looking nerdy. The core contention that
human nature is perfectable or not,
determines every other detail in that
society's social structure or worldview.
As I've mentioned in other videos, in a
world where human nature is not
perfectable, then society and traditions
have to be built in a certain way to
offset the failings of human nature.
These have consistently been the
structures which have worked the best
over human history. Every religion has
been a way to grapple with the failings
of human nature and develop standards to
offset them. The American political
system was very overtly designed by its
founders to decentralize power as much
as possible in order to prevent the
centralization of power which would
create tyranny. It's not a coincidence
America is the most successful society
ever in human history as were Britain,
Athens, or Rome whose founders did the
exact same thing with their
constitutions. As a side note here, the
reason that the founding fathers had a
view of human nature which was fairly
accurate and the French revolutionaries
had a worldview that was not and they
lived within a generation of the other
is that these were gradual trends which
took over the west and encapsulated
certain social classes faster than
others or certain areas faster than
others. As an example, in France, which
was governed by the managerial class
into the loial regime before the French
Revolution, they took on a lot of these
mechanistic atheist materialist ideas
because it was in the interest of their
ruling class. Meanwhile, in the
Anglosphere, these ideas took longer to
grow because they were still dominated
by the nobility and the merchant classes
who were ground in reality or tradition
to a greater degree. There's a whole
different discussion about when the map
paradigm started and through what
origins and that should probably be its
own video in its own right. Watch my
death of God video on history 102 if
you're curious. But I like Tarnis's
answer of what he calls the Decart
Spinosa Galileo axis where in the late
17th century you saw philosophers
develop a worldview which utterly
separated the scientific from the divine
and the subjective which siloed religion
off from the evolutions in the society
while making science utterly soulless
and separated from human intentions. And
that's where I think this started and it
gradually grew outwards from there
starting around France. However, back to
the topic at hand. Capitalism, science,
and democracy are all built off the
notion that human nature is innately
fallible and that the one thing you can
trust is that humans follow their own
self-interests. The reason systems built
off these principles work so well is
that in each of these structures,
whether the mutual competition of
capitalism or democracy alongside
science's factchecking mechanism, you
have an inbuilt mechanism to offset the
negatives of human nature with some
objective standard. Meanwhile, when you
look at the structures built off the
idea that human nature is perfectable,
an idea that was far too naive for
anyone in history except modernity, you
find unanimously the worst tyrannies
ever. The Soviet Union, French
Revolution, Nazis, Mao, and the modern
woke were all founded off these ideas in
each society in which human nature was
seen as perfectable. The next reaction,
which as Steven Pinker says is the
obvious logical conclusion from the
blank slate, is to try to use force to
engineer the people involved into being
saints. In the world of the blank slate,
not using total power to reach utopia is
immoral. Too bad they're wrong. There's
been a significant amount of research on
this, and the blank slate is just wrong
and scientifically disproven at every
level in this point. John height is one
of my favorite authors and covers this
in a lot of his books. The elephant in
the brain is another great book on the
topic. The scientific data on this is
completely unanimous now on almost every
vector. Being a blank slice today is
like being a flatearther. The real nail
in the coffin which we have now that we
didn't have a century ago are DNA or
genetics data which proves that around
half of human traits are genetic.
alongside the internet search data,
which is pretty damning personality
science in neurology. All of these point
unanimously against the blank slate. A
tipping point for me and a lot of other
people for realizing that this is all
utter garbage was looking at how the
regime argued that men and women were
exactly the same and for trans. Both of
which, if you live as a human in the
real world, are just madness. If you
talk to men and women, it's very clear
that they're different, which stems from
long lasting biological differences
which go back at least hundreds of
millions of years. Every society in
history thought men and women were
different and built their lives around
it. Furthermore, the idea that you can
genetically mutilate yourself and take
drugs to switch from one gender to the
other just makes no sense. And the
regime pushed this with total certainty.
So, if they're pushing this with
certainty, what else are they lying
about? Because this is really the canary
in the coal mine. What we've also found
with all of these various methods is
that biological sex, race, and class are
totally real. Almost every single trait
is hereditable between your music taste,
your political party, your social class,
religiosity, eye color, or noise
sensitivity. Everything is around at
least half biological which is a total
sucker punch to the modernist notions of
firstly the blank slate and secondly
equality. It's physically impossible
from the scientific evidence to believe
in equality today. However, equality is
the greatest founding myth of our
culture. I have read multiple books by
socialists writing about how we should
still believe in socialism even after
we've disproven equality. They don't
know that won't work yet. You can't have
socialism without equality. This is just
the first step here. But the removal of
the blank slate followed by equality
will destroy this current world. The
only things that have stopped this have
been that no one reads a book. But these
genetics have been popularized through
the general public by X already. We
can't go back to the blank slate world.
However, just this will destroy the
reset of our society's ruling class who
appeal to equality and social
engineering to maintain their power.
Even at the tops of academia, people
don't believe these things anymore. Both
of Harvard's top anthropologists, Joseph
Heinrich and David Reich, are firm
believers that genetics determines a
huge part of human nature and the
existence of biological race. Secondly,
the idea that culture really matters and
that culture is messed with genetics
have been totally normalized by current
academics and these thinkers. The idea
that all cultures are interchangeable
and you can just import infinity
Mexicans or Algerians without social
cost cannot be defended intellectually
in a world where anthropologists have
loads of metrics which show that
cultural differences are very deep,
highly contextbased, cannot be erased
quickly, and are often tied to genetics.
The thing is that if the dominant
intellectuals don't believe in the
ruling myth of a society that means that
at one point or another within a
generation or two that ruling class is
going to collapse as a sort of natural
law after human nature and biology.
Let's get into history. This is the
field which was hardest to empirically
falsify in that history has these grand
events which you can't just forget like
the French Revolution or the Roman
Empire which are widely known enough by
the general public. This is how I
noticed the lie itself in that as a
teenager I wanted to understand how the
world worked. I considered studying
science but there weren't many science
books around me. So I learned history
from the older sort of books they kept
around Philadelphia. That's how I got an
older vision of the world. The lies
around history are mostly on the edges
with certain very clear biases which
these sort of academics need to keep
around. I can say this as an expert but
history out of all of these is the least
falsified. People are questioning the
history narrative on the 20th century
which was a period of a staggering
amount of just historic information. The
American Revolution or slavery or other
events which had a lot of propaganda
around them but they just can't be
changed. Marxists have a big bias
against conservative regimes like
Tsarist Russia, Victorian Britain or
medieval Europe. They have an enormous
bias towards left-wing regimes, which is
why the horrors of the Marxist block
have not gained widescale social
currency in the Western world. It's
still socially acceptable to be a
Marxist in a way it isn't for Nazism,
which killed less than half as many
people. In recent history, especially
where we have lots of records, the
regime's lies are mostly issues of
framing. For example, saying that the
West arose due to oppressing its
colonies. Well, that was really a side
effect of the West being ascendant for
its own internal reasons. There were
African kingdoms before colonialism, but
the left makes them far more humane or
advanced than they truly were. The left
really has an issue making tribal
peoples better than they are, which you
can see with the noble savage, which is
their foundational myth that they need.
If you see human nature as innately
perfectable, then you're going to have
to find perfect humans somewhere in the
world, which the regime projects onto
tribal cultures. They projected these
traits onto tribal cultures, which they
called peaceful, egalitarian, feminist,
sexually loose, or simple. Well, none of
that was true. Tribal peoples are
sexist, hierarchical, enslaving,
warlike, religious, superstitious, and
brutal at the same time. These are
nearly universal traits. The left
pretended the Native Americans were
peaceful, noble savages living in
harmony with nature. But they, alongside
other tribal peoples, had a death rate
in war of 20 to 40% of young men each
generation. Most civilized populations
are 1 to 2% at most. The left needed the
tribal peoples to mimic their own moral
intuitions to make civilization look
like a mistake. But said tribal peoples
had a lot more in common with
conservatives, while the left are
statistical freaks anthropologically.
One of the more insane things the
establishment pushed was that there were
no tribal migrations across early human
history. I watched a documentary as a
child that said that the Anglo-Saxon
migrations never occurred with the Kelts
peacefully taking Saxon language and
culture. That just doesn't make sense if
you know human nature. There were also
widescale theories for decades that the
Aryan invasions never happened, which
would mean that a majority of people in
the world's languages are invalid, with
a region stretching from Bengal to
Ireland just not having their culture
alongside a very purist interpretation
of the out of Africa theory. For
decades, the idea that tribal peoples
left Africa as a single migration with
no mixing out was taken as a doctrine
among archaeologists. I spoke to an
archaeologist who said that the idea
that tribal peoples migrated into others
land was insane. What we found with
genetics data is that prehistory was a
constant migration with around half a
dozen genocides in ethnic replacements
in ice age Europe. This was obvious to
someone who understands human nature. On
top of this, different human populations
have intermarried with nonhuman species
to differing degrees. And we now
acknowledge that humans did not cleanly
evolve in Africa with migrations back
and forth and different groups of humans
evolving in isolation. Questioning any
of this in the late 20th century was
taboo. Asking if Neanderthalss or other
groups of homo like the Dennisovvens
mixed with humans used to be taboo until
the genetics evidence came out. The
thing I can't stand was the staggering
arrogance of the older order. Political
science and sociology are also utterly
falsified as fields. Sociology fits with
everything we've said so far, but
political science is since there's no
actual analysis of what works
politically. People will make
rationalistic sounding arguments. To be
frank, there's no analysis where
socialism in the long term works. You
have some European socialist countries
which look good on paper now, but
they've still witnessed the continent
slide into irrelevancy. I mean, most
political scientists are statistically
either Marxist or sympathetic. And
that's a completely failed political
ideology by any metric. I very rarely
see political science try to explain the
world or tackle causation in that
they're very reactive and emotional
trying to treat geopolitics like a
school playground where each side needs
to follow the rules given by the UN or
the adults. Politics is treated as a
clean game in which it is the very
opposite as a brutal Darwinistic battle
for survival in the jungle. My friends
who work in politics tell me that when
they meet political science majors,
there's no understanding that they'll
actually know something about politics.
It's pretty clear that the American
ruling class trained in the best schools
has zero comprehension how the rest of
the world works from our foreign policy
failures. For example, the idea that
China would just become a democracy as
it became wealthier, that the Arabs
would greet us as liberators for
conquering them, the
de-industrialization of America would be
a totally positive move, or that we
should trust the Russians, were all
opinions which the most educated
political scientists totally backed.
Furthermore, they backed these in the
most arrogant, entitled, and annoying
way possible, where they shut down all
criticism. Our political science
establishment is taught to just
rationalize whatever the ruling class
believes with no understanding of the
fundamentals that power how the world
actually works. I mean, for Christ's
sake, as an example of profound naivity
and arrogance, the idea of the end of
history is so delusional where Francis
Fukuyama wrote a book in the early '9s
saying that liberal democracy was the
end point of the human condition. And I
heard some people say that his argument
was misconstrued. But he did believe
this was the start of a utopia. And he
called it the age of the last men, which
is funny because when NZ invented that
term, he meant it to be this horrifying
dystopian society which would get
totally crushed by the uber mench. And
that's just ironic. But even if Fukuyama
was more intelligent, and I still think
he was delusional, the Western elite
took these ideas to mean that we had no
major political issues left, that there
would be no philosophic, religious,
ideological shifts, and that they didn't
have to govern anymore because their
system was so self-evidently superior to
all others. Which means this incredibly
naive and arrogant theory has been held
on to for decades as a resone detra for
the elite not to do their job and that's
just utterly ridiculous and it's deeply
evil in a roundabout way. I was once
having a conversation with a fairly
important academic. He was kind to me
and uh I won't share his name out of
respect, but some of you would know who
he was. And he told me that he didn't
read books written before, let's say,
1990. And he was shocked I was reading
books from the World War II era. He also
said he didn't make any arguments which
didn't immediately relate to statistical
evidence, which doesn't really make
sense logically. The idea that you just
use statistics is an aesthetic decision
which stems from the Rand Corporation in
the Cold War. He's also an
anthropologist too, which is strange
since that field is built off
understanding humans internally in a
complex way. I was talking to a friend
about this and his reply was they're
doing this to avoid falsification. If
you can keep your data input small for
the type of information you accept, then
you can manipulate the result. This is
something which you see in economics
where they refuse to look at the data
from before World War II. That's utterly
insane. Since the time since World War
II has been less than a historic blink
of an eye, I think the reason academics
do stuff like this is if they were to
look at the long duray of history, they
would find conservative things like
monarchy, religion, or social traditions
would work the best. However, we know
the field of economics today must be
heavily bunk just because it created
modern monetary theory. Economics is one
of the less demonically possessed
humanities since it's more statistical.
But that doesn't stop biases with
framing. For example, Markx shoving in
the labor theory of value or Marxism
into economics for the longest time,
which are theories that do not work on
any level with statistical evidence.
However, a free market consensus has
gradually emerged among economics within
the last lifetime in which practically
every book on the topic will now admit
that the free market is the ultimately
correct way to run an economy. Although
many will say things like strong social
services will further the results of the
free market. That being said, the
creation of modern monetary theory will
forever doom the historic narrative
around our era's economics. Modern
monetary theory is the dominant economic
theory of the world today which believes
that if we print infinite money it will
make the economy grow equivalently for
basically magical reasons. The fact that
serious economists can cosign on this
which is basically madness that anyone
can see shows how morally bankrupt we
are as a society. Everyone knows this is
a terrible idea. You can't just print
infinite money. The worst thing is that
this is the culmination of Keynesianism
who furthered mass government debts and
spending under the opaces of helping the
economy. However, each time it just
pushes the average person further into
poverty and increases inequality or
inflation. To finish off the human
sciences, psychology is a weird mix
today. I think some theories of
psychology have done a pretty good job
of modeling human behavior and have the
potential to be seeds for a coming new
paradigm or breakthrough. Others are
utter garbage. It really depends on the
first principles level of analysis for
the human psyche that they're working
with. Also, how much they actually look
at the evidence. For example, the
Freudians or most modern psychology just
assumes that if you analyze something or
let go of repression that those things
by themselves will help you
psychologically. Alternately, that all
human behavior is motivated by sex. On
top of this, 90% of scientific papers in
psychology have never been replicated.
So, the entire field could be bunk and
we wouldn't know. It's funny that Freud
was seen as a very rationalistic,
serious thinker. He'd talk about things
like the Edipus complex or penis envy.
While Jung, which integrated psychology
into the broader scheme of world
religion in human history, was seen as
an insane pseudocientist. It speaks to
the cognitive biases that a certain type
of leadership class had for the last
century. Finally, if the numbers of
therapists have skyrocketed at the exact
same time as mental illness has over the
last few decades without the therapists
lessening the mental illness, something
has gone very wrong where psychology
isn't actually healing people. As a
shared theme for all of this, what an
effect of these factors are is that
incorrect theories will mean that the
attempt to fix problems will just fail
in the general public. So you can look
at the failures of public policy and
then compare it to the failed ideas. To
switch from the humanities to science,
keep in mind that science is not my area
of specialtity. I don't really know
anything about the topic and I pride
myself on reading a few books in the
topic which is not enough and I know
there are lots of people in this
audience who know way more than me. So
feel free to call me out. If I'm being
honest, I don't really understand
physics. The thing is that I've gotten
to the other side of the Dunning Krueger
in the humanities. So I realize that
someone who's just getting into history
will not have the correct comprehension
on even basic topics compared to a
master. This is why I'm careful about
giving scientific opinions. One of the
techniques I use is that since I'm a
fairly good judge of character, I use
that in academic fields where I don't
have a lot of knowledge where I will
look for authors who are clearly honest
and very intelligent. I then trust their
opinions by delegation. My issue with
physics is that these wise people are
wildly contradictory. For every opinion
from a smart person on physics that I
hear, I'll hear another very smart
person who says the exact opposite. Then
they both act like their theory is
completely self-evident and the other
side is an idiot. However, as far as I
can tell, the debate in physics is
between a minority who still hold the
mechanical Newtonian worldview, which
isn't even an accurate comprehension for
Newton himself, who was a hermetic
schiso, who was basing his principles
off alchemy. And then Einstein's school,
which emerged around a century ago,
which said that the laws of physics are
relative based on context. that the
speed of light or time varies by stuff
like gravity or the scale. What I've
also heard is that Newton's vision works
better on a smaller scale, but then
Einstein's on the larger. However, there
are several holes in Einstein's vision.
The thing I find confusing here is that
physicists keep talking about these
intractable issues in their field with
Weinstein, for example, saying that the
entire field is bunk and controlled by
the regime. The thing I found confusing,
and again, I'm just a historian who's
shooting off a shotgun here, is how many
of the seemingly intractable issues in
modern physics that physicists keep
complaining are impossible to solve were
already thought through by
pre-industrial societies. The paradox of
quantum entanglement was just called the
law of sympathy in the middle ages. The
idea that there is a separate dimension
which controls the matter in this one
which a lot of modern physics has
depended on and they see as inexplicable
is called the divine. The issues with
particles jumping in and out of
existence make sense if you believe the
preodern idea that reality is a dream by
the gods. The experiments that showed
that the perceiving of matter changes
its structure is also something that
every major preodern culture believed
that consciousness controls reality. The
thing that I found curious is that these
conclusions were fairly obvious to me,
but I would never hear physicists talk
about them. Mark Andre recently got
information from the White House that
the state has been purposely stalling
research in physics ever since the early
'7s. When I saw that around six months
ago, I knew that the physics community
would immediately start to say that
consciousness determined reality. And lo
and behold, around a month after that,
one of the biggest physics journals was
dropping that as their main story. For
context of what I find so funny in this
is that within a month or two of the
regime admitting they were holding this
back, the physics researchers suddenly
said the thing that I thought was an
obvious conclusion. It meant that the
regime was explicitly preventing this
result from coming out due to the
implications. People like to think that
belief in God or the spiritual is some
low IQ stupid opinion to have. But you
can be either an atheist or a religious
person with the current physics evidence
as it exists. Both of them are
reasonable or educated. The thing is
that the managerial class does not want
you to believe in God because if there's
part of some broader plan, it firstly
means that people should trust the plan,
not the managerial class. And it also
creates structures which stop the
managerial classes and the state's
growth of total power, which will be a
consistent theme in future parts of this
video. Part of the reason that the
science can be so skewed today is that
scientific innovations normally occur
with one to three brilliant people
developing an idea out of their own
internal monologues. Creative projects
become impossible with larger numbers of
people like that except with a hierarchy
like in film studios since the project
becomes at getting that many people to
agree to something which you can't do
for works of originality or genius.
Another element is that science is a
tool of power or legitimacy in our
culture and so academia is totally in
bed with the regime for support or
funding. When you have research papers
with thousands of names on them
alongside universities receiving
enormous amounts of funding either from
large corporations or the government,
genuine innovation or truth seeeking
becomes a liability. You develop
cultures of conformity which train
people for their entire academic careers
in selfcensorship. This is how you end
up with some of the most educated people
in history propounding the idea that a
man can be a woman or that ending
civilization and printing infinite money
is the moral thing to do. The system
gets off on making people submit to it
to a degree in which it will kill the
entire culture as an insane power move.
This ties into potentially the most
controversial topic of this video, but
the entire purpose of science is to
throw out ideas and test them. I don't
understand this culture today where
questioning taboo notions is seen as a
moral failing. I never agreed to that
moral code. In the grand scheme of
things, this is not a hill I will die on
and something I want to stake my
reputation on. I don't know if this is
true, but we should at least check. How
is not checking in line with western
values? Why are we just being turned
into intellectual slaves? That being
that there's a significant amount of
research into the paranormal which
academia has not investigated at all.
One example is that the decades of
research the CIA put into spirituality
and which hundreds of people visited the
spirit world in a replicable manner in
the army backed up this research
independently. I made a video on the
topic. The CIA also used remote viewers
to spy on government military bases and
to read statistically significant
numbers in rooms on the other side of
the country. The Soviets had similar
research at the same time which came to
the same conclusions. Stannislov Gra's
research with psychedelics and with a
form of therapy in the Netherlands and
Czecha found that humans share highly
vivid archetypal maps of consciousness
or the spiritual in which he studied
people in drugs or hypnosis and found
they had very similar memories of what
their soul was like before they were
born or they would go through similar
stages of spiritual experiences like
Dante's tears of heaven and hell before
reaching the divine. divine. His
research found that once you peel away
the layers of individual personality,
you find the spark of the divine within
all people. Dean Ren, a Princeton
professor, put a huge amount of research
into studying the statistical
correlations around psychics. He found
on a large scale from like five
different measuring systems that the
average person is like 1 or 2% above
statistical average in guessing numbers
psychically. That sounds unimportant,
but when you're dealing with large
scales of numbers, it becomes very
statistically significant. Meanwhile, a
tiny percent of the population, around
1%, had vastly greater abilities which
they could use periodically, like an
athletes ability to make a home run or
an artist's ability to make a
masterpiece. Rupert Sheldrake has a
degree from Cambridge and talks about a
lot of similar stuff with archetypes of
shared human consciousness which we know
must exist up to a certain point since
all human society is built off shared
communal consciousness which we can
share with others. Then there's the
recent podcast out trying to prove this
stuff with autistic children which I
haven't had the time yet to look into to
verify. The point I'm trying to make is
I don't know if these things are valid,
but someone should at least check. I
mean, if it turned out to be true, it
would be in line with what practically
every society in history ever believed.
That there is a spiritual dimension that
certain people can access better than
others. If every society ever believed
this, questioning it should not be
totally out of reasonable discussion. It
would also fit with the existence of
universal yungian archetypes which can
be seen across cultures or manifest
inside human behavior. It would also
explain the strange phenomena you keep
seeing across ancient cultures which
know way too much about stuff we only
recently discovered through modern
science which they learned through
mysticism. Academia's main arguments
against these is it's not verifiable
under perfect lab conditions, but
neither is practically the entire human
condition. Love, the formation of a
nation, religious experiences, or
euphoria cannot be realistically
recreated in a lab on the spot, but they
clearly exist in that they control human
behavior. The reason is that
neurologically in the modernist
materialist worldview, we cannot see
reality as permeable since that's just
not how our brains are wired. The idea
that there are archetypes to reality
like order or chaos, higher and lower
forms, or masculine or feminine is
obviously true since we live it. We
obviously know that all things are
connected to everything else and that
within a given room there is a
trajectory from the lowest forms or
atoms to the highest forms or the planet
all contained within a single space and
that reality can be punched through on a
permeable basis which you can see with
physics. If the current scientific
paradigm does not believe in good or
evil or that some systems are innately
superior to others, then that's a sign
that the current scientific paradigm is
failing or should not be the total
directing power of that society. Common
sense has to be the guiding current of a
society. Even if all that schizo stuff I
said turns out to be true, we're still
stuck living our quotidian lives. We
still have to go to work, take care of
our children, and protect our nation. We
can't use our theories to avoid the
reality of human life, which is
something our society is very guilty of.
This leads to the next segment and sort
of ties off the old one. Modern
science's inability to spot the divine
is a structural issue which we use to
avoid a sense of human responsibility.
It's not that modern science, which I
feel disgusted referring to because it's
not science anymore. It's just ideology,
can't find meaning in the world. Not
since that's what the science says, but
because we built a system that would
avoid meaning by design. Part three,
issues of framing. People trap others in
their webs. The founders of religions
have webs that span millennia and
continents leading back to them. Their
webs become force fields in which entire
civilizations can grow under their
protection. Modernity is dangerously
naive and we listen to bad people who
trap us inside their webs for the
purpose of consuming us. Most of the
core issues with the current reality
aren't strictly factual, but rather
they're the use of deceptive framings
that allow the regime to control people.
You see, the most controlled population
is that which believes it's slavery to
be just. As an example of this, the lack
of archetypes or the ideal in modern
thought doesn't really make a lot of
sense once you start deconstructing it.
What I mean by that is that a
materialist is someone who
philosophically believes that all of
reality is contained within physical
matter that you can touch. Idealists
think that reality is maintained by
things you cannot physically touch like
ideal principles or God. Most societies
in history were idealist often with
significant amounts of materialism also
mixed in. The modern industrial world
practically stands alone by being purely
materialist. However, we're not really
purely materialist where a concept James
Hillman made that I love is called
invisibles. And invisibles are things
you can't touch like happiness or God or
truth or the state. And modernity thinks
some invisibles are real like the laws
of physics or Darwinistic selection. And
then it refuses other invisibles like
what they believed in the ancient or
medieval worlds. The thing is that once
you get longer into studying
materialism, it makes less sense.
Whenever you try to analyze the
material, you need to use the ideal
standards to do so. For example, the
laws of physics, things that practically
everyone can agree is real, or ideal
principles which control reality. You
can't touch gravity, but gravity totally
controls materia. Darwinism is another
example of an ideal principle or law
which controls life. Life forms which
resist Darwinism get crushed by it.
Which means Darwinism is more real to
the world than animal species are. But
again, you cannot touch Darwinism. You
need universals or principles which
exist outside of the given historic
context they stem from. For example,
both us and the ancient Greeks had a
concept of reason or justice. Societies
which find a way to get their material
existence to model the abstracts of
reason or justice perform significantly
better than those that don't which is
backed up by all the historic evidence.
If you have property rights and rule of
law your nation is going to be rich.
However, that's trying to align the
materia to these abstract concepts which
you can do through policy or policing or
whatever, which sounds an awful lot like
religion. Religion is the process of
aligning your material life with ideal
principles. At the same time, implicit
in this concept is that reason or
justice exist outside our perception of
them as values given a society which
stops believing or caring in them will
still suffer and get crushed by the laws
of history. Those principles have the
ability to punish those who don't follow
them. Isn't this sounding a lot like
God? Furthermore, over the course of
history, billions of people have
confessed the ability to reach God or
feel him. This fairly uniformly
described force has been recorded to
change the course of history through his
followers at the very least. Once you
get to this threshold, and you can go
further than this point, where is the
line between someone like Jesus Christ
who can motivate billions to serve him
after he's died for thousands of years
and the power of a god? Keep in mind, in
the ancient world, a god was something
of incredible power, not something
that's highly moral and all knowing like
the Abrahamic god. By that logic, Julius
Caesar, who had enormous continental
power, could be called a god. This
rabbit hole can go way further, but the
point I'm trying to articulate here is
that the modern worldview is not a
rational end point of humanity, but
rather it was something thrown together
by circumstance. Another example of this
is that moderns have a tendency to not
believe in intangible variables. For
example, I have basically had to
reintroduce the concept back into
history writing from the 19th century
that the moral character of nations can
change the course of history. However,
this was universally known to be true
and to fit the historic evidence with
authors such as Iban Calun, Will Durant,
Aristotle, Palibius, the Bible among so
many others agreeing to it. Modernity
never provided an argument for why the
emotions or character of a people don't
change history. They just assumed it and
refused to debate it. The reality is the
modern continent of Europe on a highly
material basis was built by the
collective unconscious of the European
peoples. Consciousness created reality
in this way. It's the same deal with the
modernist taboo of using the patterns of
history to try to understand the world,
which doesn't make sense under scrutiny.
The thing is that the things we believe
are not the rational end point of
science and reason. Rather, they're are
the outcomes of a certain subcast of the
population or the college educated
managerial class who then used the
institutions to rationalize their
neurological biases which they then
forced everyone else to believe. They
could get away with this because they
were the connecting variable of
industrial civilization and thus had
ultimate Trump power. God, that word has
changed connotations. With the internet
and AI, we don't need them anymore,
though, since we can coordinate
ourselves asynchronously in a less aair
manner. You know this to be true since
this exact group has totally thrown away
formal logic. The Greeks developed a
higher logic which could transcend local
cultural contexts and in the process
made a mental revolution which has
remade the world in its own image. For
millennia, the west ruling class were
trained in the triv which included
logic, rhetoric, and grammar, which gave
them a shared structure for human
thought, which then allowed the west to
become the most successful society in
history. However, the current managerial
elite completely rejects formal logic or
causality. If you study modernist
philosophy, you find they openly say
that reality is malleable and determined
by the elites. that by controlling the
definitions and institutions, you are
writing reality itself. This is what
Marx Hegel to a certain degree, the
postmodernists, Nazis, and Rouso all
believed. If you have an elite which
openly says that their worldview doesn't
have to correspond to reality, then why
are you shocked when it doesn't? You
should throw away all their work
immediately since they just straight up
said they don't care. However, people
are shocked when this is the case. And
the work of men who say they don't care
about truth is in fact not the truth
because they are gullible sheep. My
worldview is closest to that which was
normal across western history where the
integration of Plato, Aristotle in the
Bible. This was a worldview in which the
spiritual and meaning were already
integrated into their concept of
material reality where the actions of
our mundane daily lives had implications
on the spiritual or the big picture of
our society and world. This was the
worldview that made the modern world and
then the modernists murdered it claiming
to be the ones that built this reality
and then went about destroying it. The
fact that academia is totally unwilling
to question why people 400 years ago
might not have been correct in how they
understand the world is very telling.
They don't want to look because they
don't want to find the answers. Academia
isn't really open to debate anymore. The
core issue here is framing. The map
paradigm is so segmented that it splits
academia into distinct disciplines where
no one is checking if the world view
itself makes sense holistically. This
means that we can descend into utter
madness as a society and no one will
point it out. That since people are
looking at tiny data sets and academic
disciplines to avoid adding up each part
of the equation together. This isn't
just sloppy, it's dangerous to the point
of death. To finish this, I have three
points which might explain this equation
more fully. The first is that the thing
which sparked me writing this video like
a year ago was reading a book called the
myth of disenchantment by storm. It went
through the history of the concept of
the idea of disenchantment which
developed over the modern period in that
we were irrevocably disconnected from
God. We were living in a cold,
meaningless, atomic world where our
lives innately led nowhere. Life was a
cruel joke. What Storm found in this
book is that no one actually ever made
the argument for disenchantment. The
only people who ever wrote about this
topic were those who were arguing
against it. People would say, "Isn't it
so bad that we don't believe in God or
meaning is built into the world?" But no
one ever said why it was true. For the
disenchanted, it was just self-evidently
true on a neurological basis. Much like
why materialists can't argue for why the
ideal exists since they built a system
where since only the material is what
exists by definition, thus by
definition, you cannot use the ideal to
measure the material. He went through
every major author and no one created an
argument for why God or the spiritual
didn't exist. In each case, it was in a
world in which we only measure the
replicable or where we only value the
material, then we don't have evidence
for blend. The issue is that these are
all as if clauses in which they assume a
certain clause without explaining why we
should believe it. For example, I can
see that in science only looking at the
measurable is necessary for the testing
method that is science. However, that
doesn't lead me to believe that said
testing method should be used as the
society's only operating system, which
is what none of the founders of science
believed. Furthermore, why can't we use
the historic record or common sense to
also understand the human condition? For
all of human history, tradition or
religion have been necessary and their
removal causes social collapse. We can
just look at that historic record and we
don't need to replicate that in a lab.
What modernity has done is crush
humanity. I find in a lot of society
today the social engineers literally
leave no place for human agency thinking
this is a specific task that someone
with wisdom and imagination could do.
Everything has to be a process for its
own sake. We have given space for no
humans to think or live. Our human
desires or aspirations don't matter. If
it's not in a spreadsheet, it doesn't
exist. The issue is that they strictly
control what gets into the spreadsheets.
This is a form of logical argument which
very easily leads to madness where I
will only agree to things which you can
prove to me in the exact system I chose
which I control. Ken Wilbur in his
brilliant book sex, ecology and
spirituality said one of the cores of
modernity is the removal of the internal
state that influences the world. That
includes either how variables like
culture or religion power human history
or the internal human subconscious. The
reason we say men and women are the same
is that they're not comparing how men
and women think differently. Rather they
are the same from the perspective of the
managerial machine that's trying to
exploit them. The modern world views the
entire human condition from the
perspective of how easy it is for the
machine to exploit it. Another thing
Wilbur said was that there was a good
and bad news to modernity. The good news
was the removal of myths which I would
personally say is not good but myths
very frequently keep alive antiquated or
dangerous cultural forms. So there is a
positive. Modernity rejects archetypes
totally unless they're ones we embrace
like Darwinism or the laws of physics.
At the same time, he said modernity
rejects transcendence. He calls the map
paradigm flatland fundamentalists in
that they see the current human
perception of consciousness as the only
thing that could ever exist and totally
reject higher forms of consciousness.
These very obviously exist since humans
have constantly reached higher forms of
consciousness over our evolution. Just
look at either our evolution from apes
onwards or our intellectual progress
over written human history. Why would
that stop now? Humans only process a
tiny part of the visual spectrum of
matter. So why would that be ending now?
He compares this to people who would
only see in two dimensions, assaulting
those who believed in the third
dimension. Our current society attacks
any gaps in our current worldviews
knowledge, while in reality, these
should be sources for adventure and
excitement since they point for an
avenue to new discoveries about how the
world works or technology. I hope you
can see how these lies are so profoundly
damaging. They isolate us from actual
reality, thus stopping our various
endeavors from working. If your world
view when you're making decisions isn't
correct, then the choices you make
stemming from it will be in vain. It
stops people from reaching higher tiers
of knowledge or consciousness since
their elites tell them that they don't
exist at all. If you could remove these
lies and then replace them with an open
search for the truth. If we had the
courage to admit what we don't know,
that would create space for those who
want to figure it out. And it would
usher in one of the greatest
breakthroughs ever in human history.
What the decision to uphold this model
of the world means is the artificial
maintenance of the current ruling class
in power. The final book I want to
reference here is by reputed
neuroscientist Ian McGillchrist with his
book The Master in His Emissary, which I
think explains all of this. If you don't
want to read a 600page book, you can
watch his pretty good documentary, The
Divided Brain, which is free on YouTube
Premium. The thesis of the book is that
the brain is divided between the right
and the left hemispheres. The right
hemisphere sees all of life as an
organic process that's holistic with
meaning built into it. The right
hemisphere sees context, gradiation,
love, and human intentions. When tested,
it's generally correct, but it's humble
and open to new information. Meanwhile,
the left hemisphere is the part of our
brain designed to manipulate dead things
or wield power. It sees the world
through binary flowcharts. Does not
understand things it cannot materially
touch. Thinks that nothing exists that
it doesn't already know about. Is both
profoundly cynical and gullible. Well,
it only sees the world through money or
power. The left hemisphere isn't bad in
itself in that it serves a purpose, but
it is mentally compared to the
right hemisphere where it lacks the
wisdom to realize that the left
hemisphere is separated from the world
on purpose since we need something
that's not neurologically holistic to be
able to focus on particulars. For
example, the right hemisphere can draw
an entire image while the left can only
draw half. The left hemisphere can only
divide ideas and cannot synthesize them,
while the left hemisphere is obsessed
predominantly with power and control.
This was an incredibly important book
for me since it explains basically
everything I've spoken about here. We're
not a rational or scientific worldview
today. Were one built to feed into the
cognitive biases of the left hemisphere
which are not allowed to be questioned.
We are a world trapped in the cage of
our own minds. occasionally is becoming
deadlier and tighter by the day due to
the loving support of our elites. The
thing I want to emphasize is that none
of this is real. You can just say no. We
don't have to live like this. This is a
trap our own minds exist in out of our
own making. Our ancestors lived on the
same physical earth as us with none of
these issues since we wired ourselves to
be nihilistic. Our civilization is
killing itself and our birth rate
plunges to zero since we're trapped in
the mental categories in society we
built for ourselves. However, this is
all totally preventable. We just have to
learn to say no. The thing that will set
us free, and this is a phrase I've
developed that I love of things are what
they are. Reality is what it is. I am
what I am. When you know that reality
exists distinct from your mind and the
mental categories you develop are mere
imitations of a broader highly complex
insane reality, you can take a step back
and stop taking your own mental
categories so seriously. The next task
is how to get out of the addiction to
our own rationalizations we've built our
lives around, but that's a different
story. All I will say is it can be done
and it's easier than it sounds. Peace.
Bye-bye. Thank you to War Thunder for
sponsoring this video. You too can
destroy your enemies today. Play War
Thunder on Mac, PC, Xbox, Android, or
PlayStation. The battle awaits.